B.Tech B.Des : There is a provision for branch change. This is done after first year and depends on CPI after two semesters. Excerpts from the B Tech rules and regulations change of branch are noted below. Only those students will be considered eligible for change of branch/programme after the second semester, who have completed all the common credits required in the first two semesters of their studies in their first attempt, without having had to pass any course requirement in the summer term examination. Students may enlist their choices of branch/programme, in order of preference, to which they wish to change over. It will not be permissible to alter the choices after the application has been submitted. Change of branch/programme shall be made strictly in order of merit of the applicants. For this purpose the CPI obtained at the end of the second semester shall be considered. In case of a tie, the JEE rank of the applicants will be considered. The applicants may be allowed a change in branch/programme, strictly in order of inter se merit, subject to the limitation that the strength of a branch should not fall below the existing strength by more than ten percent and should not go above the sanctioned strength by more than ten percent. All changes of branch/programme made in accordance with the above rules will be effective from the third semester of the applicants concerned. No change of branch/programme shall be permitted after this. Branch change after one year from Design to any other department is not permitted. Also, branch change to Design from any other discipline is not permitted.


Although all subjects are equally important, the game changers will be CS101, CS110, BT201 and PH102!!
Now how to study "efficiently" for them ??
As i have done in my previous posts, i will be giving subject wise tops for each of them -
1. CS101 and CS110 - I am putting these two together simply because they cannot be separated!! In theory course , you will be learning basic and advanced C programming. Lab will be a three hour session in CC where you will be given a problem to solve using C language. Your final code for problem will be analyzed and marks will be given out of 100 for each lab.each student can carry a book of c programming with him in the lab.  However first two labs will be for basic linux commands.
Now this looks pretty simple,right ? i mean learn C in theory class and apply in lab. But everything is not that simple. Usually they will teach very elementary in class and will give probs in lab which will be quite advanced!!
 These two courses are nightmares for most of the students during 2nd sem and can create a hell lot of difference. Now how to efficiently cope them??
 For that two cases arise -
 1. You know C or equivalent computer language already. This maybe because you might have learned it in +2 or somewhere else. If this is the case, then believe me you will have a very good advantage over others.
 2 . Now problem arise when you DO NOT know C beforehand. For that you need to provide some input from your side in winter holidays, i.e, read the book "Let Us C - By Yashwant Kanetkar". You can buy it from here - (its latest edition) Complete this book and do all its problems and i promise you that 9 or 10 in both CS110 and CS101 is sure. Another book is "Mastering C by E balaguruswamy". But i prefer let us c. Some portion of this course is not provided in any book. so you need to understand them by researching on google.Note that it would be good if you can install CodeBlocks (software to run C programme) or Ubuntu (Linux) before going to home so that you can practice C at home. 2.PH102 -  Just like previous sem, in this sem you need to follow "Griffiths - Intro to electrodynamics". This book will be more than enough. Note that PH102 will be completely new topic to you. Apart from basic electrodynamics that you read in +2 (which is infact a very little part), there are many other thing and horrifying equations( atleast on first look), which are not that hard if you follow them regularly. Attend all tutorials and solve them wisely. And yes, do all the relevant back questions, chapter questions and examples of the book at least 3 times!3. ME101 - This is mostly mechanics that you read in 11th class. So no hard deal for you. Things are simple and easy. You can follow NPTEL (CLICK HERE) course modules or yhe slide give by your prof. Also i preferred "Merriam and Kreige' book as its theory and examples were pretty good. Do solve them.
  There will be a tutorial which will be graded ,i.e, you will be given 10 questions, 5 to solve in class and 5  as home assignment. Please do go in the first tutorial, as it will be held BEFOR  the first class, so do not skip it.
4. MA102 - Course is divided in two - ordinary differential equations (ODE) and multivarable calculus. For former, go for Ross and for latter , i prefer Fitzpatrick (this book is not referred but i found it really useful ). For MA102 , lecture slide would be more than enough, plus tutorials ar sufficient. Avoid silly mistakes in as compared to MA101, this is easier so cutoff will go high!!
5. BT201 - Now i am t sure whether you all are having this course or not because prof told that they will be removing the course from next sem or either diluting it. This course is divided in three parts - genetics, heredity and evolution, and biochemistry. For heredity part, slides will be given but hang on!! Here is the catch. Many of the slides will only have pictures in them and their description will be give to you in class by prof. So DO NOT FORGET TO WRITE THAT in your copy. Similarly for genetics part. If you write every explanation what the prof says, then you will have a great advantage at the time of exams.There will be no quiz!! Just endsem and midsem.Reference book to be used is "Lehringer (confirm the spelling) ". Only some portion of this book is useful to you. I referred it only for genetics part and it proved very useful. 
6.EE102 -This is electricals lab where yo would be making simple basic circuits like HWR, FWR, etc.Its pretty easy. Group of three will be formed. You will also be having viva for each experiment (or maybe not, it depends on TA). The important part part this lab is the midsem. It will be kind of objective paper where you will be asked basics of experiments that you have done. So if you score 18 or 19 out of 20 in it, then 10 is sure in this lab. I think this will be all for second semester!! Suggestions and edits are always welcome!! :) 
Now i see most of you are confused about this-
You see what the whole thing is-
Actually it goes like this that you go for a lecture. Now the professor will teach you a chapter using presentation as pdf or power point files. After teaching you, he will upload those slides on the intranet from where you can download and read them . Also a print out of these slides will be made available in the stationary shop of academic complex from where you can get them xeroxed and read them.
If you do not want to read the slides from hard copy, then you can read from soft copy by downloading the slides from the intranet. Now here is where laptops is useful. Either you can go to computer center, sit on a computer, download the slides on it and then read them. Or if you have a laptop, then you can download the slides on the laptop, sitting in your room itself, from the lan connection provided in each room.
Advantage of laptop comes from the fact that say you are having an exam 8'o clock in the morning and say if you want to wake up early around 5 and revise, then going early morning to computer center is harder than revising from your own laptop (keep in mind you still have hard copy option left) . 
Moreover, you can find previous year question papers, e books and many more stuff on dc++ which you cannot find on a computer of computer center as dc is not allowed in computer center.
As far as talking about distractions, I got my laptop the very first day and I also aimed for branch change. I controlled myself not to play addictive games, watch too much movies and not to do fb for long. Finally I got my branch changed. So its all about control. Here you will find both kind of students : getting 9+ by studying from xerox notes and also getting 9+ by studying via laptop. 
Note that a laptop is not required for distraction. I have also seen students who have ruined there first year because they got addicted to YouTube. The used to watch continuous videos sitting in computer center.
Dude its all about you and your control. Final result will depend on it!!
Well, personally speaking, you all are IITians so its meaningless to give study tips to the brightest minds on India.
But then also, many among this "brightest" lot will commit mistakes, however unknowingly, and will end getting a spi or cpi of around 7.5-8 ,which is not enough in this cut throat competition. Note : That this section is not only for branch changers but also for students who want to get 9+ cpi.
You see course in JEE , however big, was unidirectional and properly channelized. However course structure in IITs is multi-directinal. So you cannot go into detail of every single thing or you`ll end up doing Phd!! 
So now back to business!! - 
Firstly go through this link where you will find your 1st semester course structure and description.
http://www.iitg.ac.in/phy/sites/default/files/phyoff/Engg_Physics_Syllabus_Core_Course_.pdf   
 ( first page only that is only PH101)
http://www.iitg.ac.in/mech/ME_UG_Curriculum.pdf
(first and second page, only CH101,ME110, and ME111 )
http://www.iitg.ac.in/eee/btechsyllbusece2010.html
(EE101 only )
http://www.iitg.ac.in/maths/acads/btech_struct.php?id=MA101#MA101
(MA101 only)
OK, so now you know what courses you`ll study.
Regarding  books-
You see, in each of above links, books list is also provided. However only a few of them are important - 
1.D. Kleppner and R. J. Kolenkow (first book in the list). This book is like a bible if you want to score 10 in physics which can be easily done. For physics this is more than enough.
2.Note that for chemistry, no book is required. i will tell you why in further discussion.
3.Dhananjay and jolhe or N.D Bhatt, any one of these can be used for engineering drawing.
4.D.Poole linear algebra , Bartle and Sherbert for real analysis, both are important. the latter one is important after midsem.
5.Listen, no book is required for EE but students do face problem sometimes in it. so for reference only, you can use Boylestad or Tocci, any one of these.
How to get these books-
As students are more , so library cannot have 700 copies of each book, thats unreasonable!! So better you issue them early. Now there are two methods to issue - If you have any cousin or friend studying in iit guwahati, then ask him to issue these books for you from his i-card, as you wont be having your own i-card. Otherwise, wait to get your i-card.
  Now there is another way to get books. Your hostel library. each hostel has a small library and very rarely students go and search there. However you will find all of the above books there.
 E-copies of these are equally good which can be found on DC++.
How to study??
1. Go to class and tutorials regularly. This is very very important. If you solve all tutorials, especially of maths, chemistry and EE, you can very easily score 9-10 in these.
2 Subject-wise tips-
2.1 Physics - 
Kleppner and Kolenkov is your bible. Solve each and every question of it almost 4 times. And then  if you do not get 10 in physics, then i will shut my blog!!
2.2 Chemistry - 
Don`t worry about it. Lecture slides are more than enough. In physical chem, whatever questions and theory the prof will tell you to solve in class or tutorial, SAME questions will be there in your exam. Also for inorganic and organic, lecture slides plus tutorials are more than enough. Now you can see why tutorials are important. Do not go into books or you`ll surely waste your time.
2.3 Maths - 
D.Poole before midsems and Bartle and Sherbert after midsems are like bible. You see, solve every question of tutorials and D.poole. 
 You see, topic taught after midsem (real analysis) is kind a vague topic. But if you read Bartle and sherbert, especially its examples are very important, then this topic will appear very easy to you. again if you follow this, 9-10 in Maths is sure.
2.4 Engineering Drawing - 
You will be having regular lab sessions for ED, where you will be getting marks for each lab drawing. Now these marks do count seriously, you will come to know afterwards. So do make them seriously. 
 Before going to lab, do read and UNDERSTAND the relevant topic from Dhananjay and Jolhe or ND Bhatt.
2.5 Electronics - 
Tutorials are again very important for this. Also if you do not understand any topic in it, do clarify it very clearly with tutors or this will create a hell lot of problem. You can use books as a reference. 2.6 Labs - 
VERY VERY IMPORTANT. Students generally ignore labs as it has low weight-age. But believe me, these will create a huge difference if you do not take them seriously. For chemistry lab, note the applications and initial preparations in advance (you will come to know what are these). In physics, do error calculations carefully and make the initial preparation always. In workshop, if you get your viva done properly , then 8-9 is sure in workshop. For workshop, use Elements of workshop technology ( ab blue coloured book). Just read this before viva. NEVER MISS A LAB SESSION.
MISTAKE THAT STUDENTS DO-
Firstly, night-out studies are worthless. Many students study from 12 night to 6 morning and then sleep in the morning. This is a very BAD practice. All you will get is 6-8 cpi from this. Please avoid this.
Secondly, never miss a class and a tutorial. Always keep solutions of all tutorials with you.
Thirdly, Students do not take the labs seriously and end up getting 6-7 in each lab. VERY BAD!! This will create a huge difference ( my personal experience ).
Fourthly, Do enjoy!!. Not that you study whole time. There are students who study only for few hours, enjoy games and chats with friends and still score 9.78!! (its real)
Lastly, Never give up. Even if you get around 8-8.3 in 1st sem, you are not out of the game. You are very much in. Think of getting 9+ in second sem.
Festivals and Events at IIT guwahati.... 
I will not discuss much on this as this is one thing that you must and will discover on your own.
 There are two inter college festivals that define every iit-
TECHNICHE- This the annual techno-management event organized by IITG and is  very famous all over India. Its a technical event. Technothlon, the inter school exam comes under this.
Hi folks!! Firstly congrats on just clearing one of the toughest exams of India. Now before you equate IIT = Placements...please read this. Well, firstly IIT is and was never about PLACEMENTS. IIT's are always about "knowledge". The knowledge and insight to subject that you get here is priceless!! This knowledge is going to be your modus operandi for anything you do after your 4yrs. This knowledge is what you must have thirst for. I saw that almost 75% of you were interested in getting CSE branch. Its ok that many of you may be having in coding or computers...that's not an issue. But truly speaking, your choices were driven by hefty pay packages given to CSE grads. Like the average package for a CSE student here is 24lpa. Isn't it intimidating? If you carry on your 4 yrs with this attitude, then sorry but you cannot go anywhere with this. Even students getting hefty packages have done very very hard work to achieve that. No branch is bad or good. Placements are just a very small part of them. Moreover, doing a job (provided your financial condition is not that bad) after your graduation is a waste of your potential.   Irrespective of any branch you are from, you will get equal opportunities. Each year, students from each branch go for masters in some of the world's best colleges - MIT, Stanford, Harvard, Purdue, Cornell, etc. Of course, you can also go there, provided you change your former attitude. Take example of Biotech - Out of a batch of 48-50 students, 3-4 of your batch mates will definitely be going for higher studies in ivy league colleges , as they go each year.(MIT, Stanford, Cornell etc.). And this story is of every branch, be it CSE, Mechanical, Electrical, Biotech, Civil, Design etc.The best attitude would be - be thirsty for knowledge from your 1st day. Question everything? Why is this? How is this? Reach to the root of everything to get a better understanding. Next, after your base is complete, try to advance your knowledge by reading foreign author books and research papers of your favorite topic. Lastly, never study for marks - always for knowledge. Marks will automatically be reflected in your answer sheet. I know i am speaking like "3 idiot" movie, but believe me, i am a 9 pointer till now with this methodology only. And its never about pointers...these can and will never define your true knowledge. Give your best...and rest will be assured.
Hi folks!! Hope your midsems went fine. Till now you have probably got a feel of what its like to give exams and score a CPI in IIT. Many of you must be confused about what are minor courses and how are the helpful? While there must be some of you who do not know anything about them. So this post is to help you to guide through your confusions so that you can clarify your doubts. What is exactly a minor course? A minor course gives you an extra course per semester (till 7th sem). In your bachelor's degree, it will be mentioned as - " Bachelor of Technology in XXX(your department)XXX with an specialization in XXX(your minor course)XXX". These have efficently designed course structures which provides you an insight and some fundamental concepts of the branch in which you have taken your minor. Is there any criteria for getting desired minor? Yes...basically only for CSE minor. For it, you need at least a cpi of 8.4+. While other minor courses are easy to get. What is the course structure and routine? For course structure go to intranet>>sections>>academic>>minor course structure and syllabi. You will be having classes for minor from 12 to 1 pm on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. Each sem's minor course will be of 6 credits (in maths minor, 5th sem is of 8 credits), so they also add up quite efficiently to your cpi. Which minor is best for me? Note that you cannot take an audit course in minor. If you have interest in any particular stream, the do choose that minor. Otherwise general trend is that  - CSE minor: Mostly students form all branches who have interest in coding can take it. EE minor: Generally mechanical students prefer EE minor. Design Minor: Truly speaking, an efficient way to improve your grades as minimum grade you can get is 9. So either students who want to improve their grades or machanical students interested design. Maths and other Minor: Quite an interesting deal if you really love maths.Generally take by mixed students. Is minor helpful in placements? Now comes the big question!! You see, minor course concept was started in year 2010. So our now graduating seniors are the first breed of with minor courses. So this time, companies didn't know that what is the significance of minor. So the situation still remains dubious over the question. Can i drop the minor course ? No doubt minor course load will be heavy as it is actually one extra course per sem. But here is the sunshine - you can drop a minor course in any sem you want to. Now this has some consequences. You can drop a minor course only before its last date, which is around 2nd week after midsems. So say if you like your 3nd sem minor course and wish to continue, but when you come to 4th sem and you find it pretty hard to continue, the you can drop it in the fourth sem also. Basically you can drop it in any sem before the last date. If you wish to drop it, then there wont be any mention of specialization in minor field or courses in the degree....even if you drop it in you last sem!!
Suppose your cpi gets effected due to your minor grades for 2 sems, and you wish to drop it now in 3rd sem, then the damage done by the minor grades in your previous sems will NOT revert back. Hope the above info has cleared many of your doubts. If  you want to get more info on this topic, then do comment under this post. Well, i hope your first sem is going well... and many of you are scoring quite enough to stay above 8.2 to 8.5.Note that you should not get disappointed even  if you get a bit lower cpi in first sem, because second sem can make a hell lot of difference! Also this post is not only for branch changers but also for those students who want to score better in 2nd sem. If you ask any of your senior, then they will say that second sem is very tough. But believe me, its really not that tough. at first, it may seem a bit hard to pull through it because unlike first sem, most of the things in 2nd sem will be new to you. But they are interesting, typical but interesting. Now talks apart. In second sem, you will be having 5 subjects and 3 labs, totaling to a credit of 43. Firstly look at you course structure from here -
 BT 101  Modern Biology (3-1-0-8)                                                                         
 Diversity in biological systems; cell biology and cell structure; biological membranes; bioenergetics;  genetics: DNA as genetic material; structure of DNA; DNA replication; transcription; translation; genes to proteins and to protein function; gene expression and regulation; recombinant DNA technology. Human physiology: biological axons and neurons, neuromuscular and synaptic junctions; sensory systems - hearing, taste, smell and visual receptors.
Textbooks:
[1] J. L. Tymoczko, J. M. Berg and L. Stryer, Biochemistry, 5th Ed, W. H. Freeman & Co, 2002.
[2] D. L. Nelson and M. M. Cox, Lehninger Principles of Biochemistry, Macmillan Worth, 2000. 
References:
[1] N. Hopkins, J. W. Roberts, J. A. Steitz, J. Watson and A. M. Weiner, Molecular Biology of the Gene, 4th Ed, Benjamin Cummings, 1987.
[2] C. R. Cantor and P. R. Schimmel, Biophysical Chemistry (Parts I, II and III), W.H. Freeman & Co., 1980.
[3] C. C. Chatterjee, Human Physiology, Vol 1 & 2, 11th Ed, Medical Allied Agency, 1987)

