Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IIT Guwahati, IITG) is a public institution established by the Government of India, located in Guwahati, in the state of Assam in India. It is the sixth Indian Institute of Technology established in India.

IIT Guwahati is officially recognised as an Institute of National Importance by the government of India.
The history of IIT Guwahati traces its roots to the 1985 Assam Accord signed between the All Assam Students Union and the Government of India, which mentions the general improvement in education facilities in Assam and specifically the setting up of an IIT.

IIT Guwahati was established in 1994 by an act of parliament and its academic programme commenced in 1995. IIT Guwahati admitted its first batch of students into its Bachelor of Technology programme in 1995. The selection process was the same as that of all IITs, i.e., through the Joint Entrance Examination. In 1998, the first batch of students were accepted into the Master of Technology program through the GATE.
The campus of IIT Guwahati is on the northern banks of Brahmaputra and abuts the North Guwahati town of Amingaon. It is often considered as the most beautiful campus in India.

The campus is on a 700 acres (2.8 km2) plot of land around 20 km from the heart of the city. It has the Brahmaputra on one side and hills and vast open spaces on others.

IIT Guwahati houses the following departments:

Department of Biosciences and Bioengineering (previously known as Department of Biotechnology)
Department of Chemical Engineering
Center of Excellence for Sustainable Polymers
Department of Chemistry
Department of Civil Engineering
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Department of Design
Department of Electronics & Electrical Engineering (previously known as the Department of Electronics and Communication)
Department of Humanities and Social Sciences
Department of Physics
Department of Mathematics
Department of Mechanical Engineering
The aforementioned departments of the Institute offer B. Tech., B. Des., M. Des., M. Tech., M.A. (Development Studies), M.Sc. and Ph.D. programmes.

Presently there are about 5965 students (2729 undergraduate and 3236 postgraduate) on rolls, 215 faculty members and 300 support staff

IIT Guwahati is home to five academic centres.

Centre for Nanotechnology
Centre for Rural Technology
Centre for Linguistic Science & Technology
Centre for the Environment
Centre for Energy

IT Guwahati is home to five academic centres.

Central Instruments Facility
Centre for Computer & Communication Centre
Centre for Career Development.
Centre for Creativity
Centre for Educational Technology

IIT Guwahati hosts Param-Ishan which is the fastest and most powerful super computer in northeastern, eastern and southern regions of the country.