Students' Senate is A powerful and apolitical organization that acts as a connecting bridge between the administration and the student community. The gymkhana is a democratic student body, which consists of elected student representatives working for the overall personality development and smooth living of the students. It promotes the objectives of fostering extra-curricular and co-curricular activities, welfare of students and their stay on the campus. It also organizes various workshops, events and seminars round the year, that enable to supplement and complement the curricular or main syllabi activities. It comprises of five Boards viz. Students’ Welfare Board, Cultural Board, Sports Board, Technical Board and Hostels’ Affairs Board. Over the subsequent pages, we will introduce you to the current student gymkhana council and familiarize you with the activities of each of the individual boards under the council.
				 At IIT Guwahati,  this structure of Students' Senate was implemented for the first time in 2014-15. The whole idea behind the implementation of this system is to have a student body which would look into the issues within campus and all those pertaining directly to the student community. In other words, students' senate represent each student in the campus. What is the structure of Students' Senate?Students' Senate consists of 23 elected student representatives:Executive Panel-Vice President, Students' Gymkhana Council-General Secretary, Students' Welfare Board-General Secretary, Sports Board-General Secretary, Cultural Board-General Secretary, Technical Board-General Secretary, Hostel Affairs BoardLegislative Panel-7 UG (Undergraduate) Senators-7 PG (Postgraduate) Senators-3 Girl Senators
				How does Students' Senate function?Students' Senate acts as a bridge between the student community and the administration. Senate meets once every month where discussion are done and decisions are made upon the proposal drafted by the senators on the issues put forward by the student community through the form circulated online before the meeting.Depending upon the type of the proposal, they are drafted and submitted to the concerned department or are put forward in SAC(Students Affairs Council) by the Vice President, who is the chairman of students' senate and joint secretary at the SAC meeting.How easy it is to put forward your point in the agenda for the meeting?You can put agenda in the google form that is circulated each month. To give a detailed information of your proposal, you can call up a senator, sit with him so that he can put forward your point in the meeting which goes into action on approval by the Studnets' Senate. Senators will be happy to help you always. Just give them a call in case of help. 
Alcheringa Techniche Advaya Seismech Reflux Udgam.Every year the students and administration of IIT Guwahati together organise a number of festivals and competitions. Techniche, Alcheringa and IIT Guwahati Entrepreneurship Summit are conducted on a very large scale. Students of IIT Guwahati participate in the annual Inter IIT Sports Meet. IIT Guwahati also hosted the 49th Inter IIT Sports Meet in 2013. Alcheringa, popularly known as "Alcher", is the annual cultural festival of Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati. Started in 1996, Alcheringa has quickly established itself as one of the biggest college level cultural events in Asia.  It’s a 4 day cultural extravaganza and have witnessed a crowd of over 80,000, and was graced by artists like, Mohit Chauhan, Mika Singh,Anoushka Shankar, Sonu Nigam, Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy, Shilpa Rao, KK, Javed Ali, Shaan and international artists such as Orphaned Land, World’s Fastest Quad Guitarist Michael Angelo Batio, Korpikklani, Metastatis, Ne Obliviscaris, Guilliano Modarelli and many more. Alcheringa with over 400 participating colleges organises over 70 events, Houte Coutre, Mr. & Miss Alcher, Rock-o-Phonix: India’s biggest rock band competitions, Raga High, Electric Heels, Halla Bol and many more to provide a platform for talent and make them acknowledged and also have impressive winning prizes.Alcheringa is the a dreamtime, and is long awaited by students of IITG as well as crowd of north-east India.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Alcheringa Techniche is the annual Techno-Management festival of the Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati, India. Started in 1999, through its past seventeen editions, it has been witnessing a new zenith of techno-management events ranging from raging robotics to corporate module to inspiring lecture series to awe striking workshops to jubilant nites. It served as a distinguished platform for entrepreneurs, innovators and technocrats to showcase their abilities as every edition sought to take a leap forward in redefining and revolutionizing the technology.Techniche is generally held in the first weekend of September and lasts for three days and four nights. It comprises numerous diversified competitions, Technothlon: India’s largest student organized examination, lectures, interactive talks, exhibitions, workshops and exuberant nights as well as various social Initiatives.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Techniche Advaya is an annual PG inter-departmental techno-cultural festival of IIT Guwahati. It is an avenue for students to be comforted from their conventional lives to embrace the fun and frolic embodied with captivating performances of the artists hidden inside them.Commenced in 2010 as a 'PG Fest', Advaya (which stands for non-dualism) earned its official name in the year 2012 and was taken to a new level by the organizers of 2013.Now, it has turned into an ever-growing fiesta currently in its 7th edition. Advaya is all set to spread magical revolution with new additions such as "Sanidhya - A cultural evening especially for Faculties, Married Scholars and their families", Sports and various informal events.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Advaya Reflux, the annual Chemical Engineering Symposium of IIT Guwahati, is organized in the last week of March every year. It has been a pioneer in chemical industrial and entrepreneurial scene of the country.The aim of Reflux is to provide an opportunity for budding Chemical Engineers to share scientific expertise and knowledge towards the development of new methods and strategies in different fields of Chemical Engineering. The event is planned to be highly interactive and an excellent learning experience for all the delegates.It organizes lectures, workshops, and a wide range of events, exhibitions, and competitions to be held during these three days along with research paper presentations. Over the years, Reflux has proved itself as a genuine platform to interact with the youth and engage them.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Reflux Udgam, the IIT Guwahati Entrepreneurship Summit was conceptualized for a single purpose: to inspire people to know what it is like to pursue your dreams as an Entrepreneur, from people who know this perfectly well, and who want everyone else to do the same. This has been the aim for every edition of Udgam and we hope to continue moving towards this goal as relentlessly as possible. From giving you a chance to meet and interact with people who subscribe to our view of going ahead with what you are passionate about, and helping you shed your apprehensions and giving you a first-hand experience of how you should do so through our workshops, Udgam has something for every aspiring entrepreneur.Having events like Business Quiz, Virtual Stock Market and various online events to inspire and encourage the budding Entrepreneur in participants.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Udgam.

 Cadence Club Anchoring Club Fine Arts club Photography club Movie club Music Club Drama Club Literary club Radio G. Always thought that IIT will be all about studies and grades? Well, think again. Here you will find everything ranging from dance, music, and drama, to movies, debates and quizzes. You have worked hard enough to get into IIT. Now it’s time to ease out a bit get yourself involved with several activities to develop your personality and hone your skills. IITG has its own Cultural Board which organizes and promotes all extracurricular cultural activities. It has currently nine clubs, namely; Anchoring, Choreography, Fine Arts, Literary, Performing Arts, Photography, Music and the Movie Club, meeting a wide range of interests of the students of the institute. IITG also has its own radio station where we are the RJs, and hopefully, in the future, so shall you. We even have regular cultural nights where students from all hostels gather together and enjoy the evening with live dances and performances from some of the institute’s many bands. Do you think you are a born dancer and if you were not bounded by the JEE preparations,you would have probably ended up touring the world with dance troupes.? Or are you a case of two left feet and too shy to perform or even dance in parties? Well, fear not. We have Cadence-the dance club of IITG. They make the music visible. so dance your way through your college years!Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Cadence Do you think you own the stage or does the mere mention of stage gives you sleepless nights and frights.? Whatever be the case, you will find your chance to hone your skills and overcome your fears! The Anchorenza club is here for you! The place which will we provide you all sorts of stage to learn, improve and finally emerge as an "anchor".Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Anchorenza_and_RadioG "Art washes away from the soul the dust of everyday life." - Pablo Picasso Express yourself and discover more to yourself with the fine arts club. You will be amazed at your own self. The club will be there with you as you embark on a colorful journey of art, hopes and dreams.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Fine_Arts_Club photography is the only language that can be understood anywhere in the world. You dont take a photograph, you make it. Make many photographs here at IIT guwahati with the Montage- the photography club of IIT guwahati.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Photography_Club We know JEE preparation were rather cruel to you and you could neither develop or explore your love for movies and movie making. The movie club is ready to groom the next Steven Speilsberg. The movie club is waiting for you!Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Movie_Club Music gives a soul to the universe, wigs to the mind, flight to the imagination and life to everything else. Live this music. Dare yourself to set yourself free through this medium. Escape the reality and be in sync with your dreams. The music club is here to take you on this journey of a lifetime! Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Music_Club The drama club performed street plays, held workshops and a full three acts stage play. And you can be a part of it too. Express yourself with the Expressions-The drama club of IITG.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Drama_Club IITG awaits the poet and the writer in you! Unleash it with the litsoc on the campus. Join the all kind of the club-  from hobbyists, to virtuoso, to those plainly interested in indulging themselves, and  taste the literature from an altogether different plate!Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/LitSoc-DebSoc Do your friends always tell you that you a "Chatterbox"? Well, why waste your talent on them? Lets grab up a mic and show them the power of speaking good. All you need is enthusiasm because "Communication is a skill that you can learn.It's like riding a bicycle or typing.If you are willing to work at it,you can rapidly improve the quality of every part of your life"!Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Anchorenza_and_RadioG.

Athletics Club Aquatics Club Basketball Badminton Cricket Club Football Club Hockey Club Lawn Tennis Club Squash Club Table Tennis Club Gymnasium Weightlifting Club Volleyball Club. You are here for an overall development of your personality, so to keep you healthy and fit, we have all the facilities for sports, both indoor and outdoor. All outdoor sports like athletics, swimming, cricket, football, hockey, basketball, volleyball, etc. and indoor sports like table tennis, weight lifting, chess, carom, squash, etc. are actively played by all throughout the year. We have a Sports Board to organize and promote all extracurricular activities in the field of sports. It currently comprises of eleven clubs, one each for Cricket, Football, Basketball, Volleyball, Tennis, Athletics & Gymnastics Club, Table Tennis Club, Aquatics Club and Badminton Club.Recently, IIT Guwahati has flourished its branches in the world of sports by bringing KHO-KHO, KABADDI, CHESS and CARROM to spotlight for students. So if you wish to be a master striker, a perfect planner, or a dirt lover, come up with your talents and we ensure you best possible way to perfection.The SAC grounds are open till 9 P.M. at night and you can issue sports equipment from the security guard at the SAC desk by bringing your I-Card. The use of the swimming pool requires you to register permanently and get a separate pool card. Don’t worry if you are a big zero in sports and never knew where to begin. There is a full-time dedicated team of professional coaches for various sporting activities. Physical fitness and mental alertness is a mantra for success in life. So, each one of you do make it a point to take some time out from your busy schedules for sports and extracurricular activities.
			 The track events are held on a 400 m grass track. Additionally two long jump pits, a pole vault arena, and a full-fledged area for throw events constitute the athletic framework. Students can avail the facilities of the standard Olympic sized swimming pool that has produced many excellent swimmers over the years under the guidance of international coaches, available throughout the year. There are three basketball courts in the campus which have been renovated recently, two of them with floodlights. Enthusiasts sweating it out over a game after sunset is a common sight. IIT Guwahati campus has ten well-kept badminton courts, the highest among all the IITs. Five of which are synthetic, while five are wooden courts. The wooden court stadium was inaugurated by the magnificent Mary Kom. Two tough pitched cricket grounds, with floodlights and a practice arena with five nets are part of the cricketing scenario of the campus. Needless to say, you have a great opportunity to witness the feeling of a professional. The well maintained International standard football ground is witness to many spirited sessions of the beautiful game. The FIFA 2017 under-19 world cup games are scheduled to be held in IIT Guwahati football ground itself. The national game of our country is loved and highly encouraged among the IITG junta. Two magnificent Hockey grounds are present in the campus, with a series of competitions and events held throughout the year to keep on maintaining the Hockey culture in the campus. The campus houses four hard courts, which are complemented with a huge practice wall. IITG culture for sports is widely open. All other sports being in one side, IITG is crowned with one perfectly dimensioned wooden squash ground too. Table tennis culture is very vast in IIT Guwahati. With a craze for T.T. in students, every hostel has a T.T. table, along with six tables present in the Table Tennis room, SAC building where the inter IIT players practice. Institute houses a state of art Gymnasium. Gymnasium offers perfect workout equipments, for a pro as well as a beginner. It provides optimal workout ambience, whether you have to trim away some fat or are looking forward to stand par with Arnold Schwarzenegger. It has room for machines such as Squat station, Cable and Pulleys, Hammer Strength, Preacher’s Bench, Leg Press, Hack Squat and many more. Gymnasium does have qualified gym trainer for guidance and assistance. Moreover, there are separate gyms for men and women. The weightlifting room, situated in old SAC building, is facilitated with modern equipment and weightlifter can work out with music in the backdrop. Students may join the weightlifting club in which a plethora of events are organized regularly. IIT Guwahati provides a range of opportunities for volleyball enthusiasts to hone their talent and showcase it in front of bigger faces. With three courts maintained under the sports board, IIT Guwahati gives you an opportunity to bring out the best in you.

Saathi- The Counselling Service Social Service Club Youth Empowerment Club Rights and Responsibility Club Red Ribbon Club .The Students Welfare Board broadly addresses the overall well being of the students of the institute. Its scope of activities includes among various welfare activities such as faculty-student interactions, senior-junior interactions, organizing yoga and meditation camps, serving the society through Social Service Club, group discussions, coffee house sessions, counselling services to students and a lot of other activities which are aimed at keeping the mind, body and soul of the IITians sound. Well, what do they have for you? Here at IITG, the Students Welfare Board is committed to ensure that you have no issues adapting to the new home you are about to live in. They will give you a warm welcome by organizing the Freshers Week, which will have events aiming at helping you in adapting to your new home. Another major question which you all might be having is about Ragging. Well friends, we assure you all that there is no such thing in the campus and you are about to enter a friendly environment and home away from home. Do contact us at any time regarding any problem that you might be facing during your stay in the campus. When one is away from his/her comfort zone, a mentor, a counsellor, a saathi emerges as a shed in storm. Saathi, the counselling service of IIT Guwahati, has experienced counselors who are ready to take the responsibility to guide you towards the path of success. This includes tackling personal, family and peer problems as well as managing academics more responsibly.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Saathi_Club The main aim of the social club is to make some efforts to uplift the society by organizing different activities. It also targets to bring smiles to the Underprivileged children outside the campus and give flights to their hopes. This club coordinates between the welfare board and the NSS community as well.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Social_Service_Club The Youth Empowerment Club engages youth in positive activities during the hours that they are most likely to be involved in the negative lures of their communities.  The program of the club is designed to help students build self-esteem, enhance communication, manage anger and violent expression, enhance decision making skills, become independent thinkers and create positive relationships with others. Our programs promote safety by empowering youth to make positive choices about their education, recreational activities and personal actions. Mission of Club is to empower young people through development and implementation of different programs so that they actively participate in the life of the campus and to support them in solving of their problems and needs, and in that way to contribute the development of quality of youth and community life.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Youth_Empowerment_Club This club is responsible for advising the board and simulating efforts for preserving and creating awareness about human rights of campus residents, including issues of ragging,harassment, and discrimination. Also, if someone feels that their rights are violated in any quarter and they feel forcibly obliged, they are free to come up with their issues and the club will try to help them in all possible ways.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Rights_and_Responsibilities_Club This club focuses on spreading Awareness on HIV/AIDS prevention methods to reduce occurrences of HIV infection among youth and motivating them to help and support people living with HIV/AIDS thereby reducing stigma and discrimination.Campus Wiki: https://iitg.wiki/Red_Ribbon_Club