Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IIT Guwahati, IITG) is a public institution established by the Government of India, located in Guwahati, in the state of Assam in India. It is the sixth Indian Institute of Technology established in India.
 IIT Guwahati is officially recognised as an Institute of National Importance by the government of India.[4][5]
 The history of IIT Guwahati traces its roots to the 1985 Assam Accord[6] signed between the All Assam Students Union and the Government of India, which mentions the general improvement in education facilities in Assam and specifically the setting up of an IIT.
 IIT Guwahati was established in 1994 by an act of parliament and its academic programme commenced in 1995.[1] IIT Guwahati admitted its first batch of students into its Bachelor of Technology programme in 1995. The selection process was the same as that of all IITs, i.e., through the Joint Entrance Examination.[7] In 1998, the first batch of students were accepted into the Master of Technology program through the GATE.
 The campus of IIT Guwahati is on the northern banks of Brahmaputra and abuts the North Guwahati town of Amingaon. It is often considered as the most beautiful campus in India.
 The campus is on a 700 acres (2.8 km2) plot of land around 20 km from the heart of the city. It has the Brahmaputra on one side and hills and vast open spaces on others.[1]
 IIT Guwahati houses the following departments:
 The aforementioned departments of the Institute offer B. Tech., B. Des., M. Des., M. Tech., M.A. (Development Studies), M.Sc. and Ph.D. programmes.
 Presently there are about 5965 students (2729 undergraduate and 3236 postgraduate) on rolls, 215 faculty members and 300 support staff.[8]
 Internationally, IIT Guwahati was ranked 501-550 in the QS World University Rankings of 2018. The same rankings ranked it 98 in Asia[11] and 52 among BRICS nations.[10] It was ranked 601-800 in the world by the Times Higher Education World University Rankings of 2018,[12] 112 in Asia[14] and 106 among BRICS& Emerging Economies in 2017.[13]
 In India, among engineering colleges, it ranked 7th by India Today in 2017[17] and 8th by The Week.[18] It was ranked 7th among engineering colleges in India by the National Institutional Ranking Framework in 2018[16] and 12 overall.[15]
 IIT Guwahati is home to five academic centres.
 IIT Guwahati is home to five academic centres.
 IIT Guwahati hosts Param-Ishan which is the fastest and most powerful super computer in northeastern, eastern and southern regions of the country.[19]
 IIT Guwahati is a fully residential campus. All the students live in hostels on the campus. The hostels are named after rivers and tributaries of North-East India: Manas, Dihing, Kapili, Siang, Kameng, Barak, Subansiri (girls' hostel), Umiam, Dibang, Brahmaputra (largest hostel in all the IITs[citation needed]), Dhansiri (new girls' hostel) and Lohit (new boys' hostel). Apart from these, there is a married scholars hostel for married postgraduates.
 Every year the students and administration of IIT Guwahati come together to organize a number of festivals and competitions. The major festivals include Alcheringa, the annual cultural festival, Techniche, the annual techno-management festival, Udgam, the annual entrepreneurship summit and Research Conclave. Apart from these the Students of IIT Guwahati participate in the annual Inter IIT Sports Meet. The 53rd edition of Inter IIT Sports Meet is going to happen in IIT Guwahati in December 2018. Apart from these the General Championship (GC) is widely celebrated across the hostel communities in the institute, the combined score in the inter hostel meets Kriti (Tech), Manthan (Cultural) and Spardha (Sports) is used to decide the winning hostel.
 Alcheringa, popularly known as "Alcher", is the annual cultural extravaganza of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Guwahati. It started in 1996 as a student-run nonprofit organisation catering primarily to the youth of the nation.[20] Held for three days and four nights, Alcheringa witnessed an estimated footfall of 1,00,000 people
in 2018 edition.
 Alcheringa has a history of having witnessed famous Indian and International artists. The list includes world's fastest guitar shredder Michael Angelo Batio, Swiss folk metal band Eluveitie, Israeli progressive metal band - Orphaned Land, Portuguese beat boxer Rizumik, Irish metal band - Frantic Jack, Pakistani pop rock band - Strings, Villalobos Brothers - the Mexican trio and an alternative rock group from New York City - Betty in the international section.
 Renowned Indian artists like Vishal-Shekhar, Mohit Chauhan, Sonu Nigam, Javed Ali, Shaan, K.K, Shankar Ehsaan Loy, Shilpa Rao, RDB, Anoushka Shankar, Pt.Vishwa Mohan Bhatt, Rock band Euphoria, Vir Das and  Kalki Koechlin add stature to the list.
 Alcheringa 2018, titled "Echoes of Innocence", the twenty-second edition of the festival starred Bollywood dynamic duo, Vishal-Shekhar, Portuguese House producer, Diego Mirandaand Australian House producers, Mashd N Kutcher, alternative rock band from Chennai, The F16's and classical music maestros & brothers, Ganesh and Kumaresh and legendary Padma Shri Awardee Shahid Parvez.
 Techniche is the techno-management festival of IIT Guwahati. Techniche is held in September every year over three days. Techniche provides students from schools and colleges across India a platform to interact with many experts in subject areas through its lecture series. It has been attended by R. Chidambaram, Kiran Bedi, H. C. Verma, Mike Fincke, John C. Mather and others.
 Udgam, is the annual Entrepreneurship Summit of IIT Guwahati. Organized by the institute's Entrepreneurial Cell, it aims to inspire young students and graduates of North-East India to embrace entrepreneurship .[21] Apart from a series of talks by eminent entrepreneurs there are plethora of workshops & networking sessions which happen during the festival.[22] It is usually held as an annual 3-day summit in March.
 Research Conclave is organized under the banner of Students' Academic Board (SAB) of Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati (IITG). It is a staunch platform to nurture the young minds towards research, innovation and entrepreneurship, which intends to bring the integrity of the students towards both industries and academia to redress the academic research challenges, concerns of the entire student community and upcoming entrepreneurs around the globe. It has been attended by H. C. Verma, Dr. Raksh Vir Jasra [1], M. S. Ananth, Padma Shri Awardee A. S. Kiran Kumar and others.
