<H1> City to Campus Campus to City Bus Timing App <H1><H2> < A B S > <H2><H3> < A B S > <H3><C> Guwahati is the gateway for North East India. It is well connected by air, rail and road with the rest of the country. Trains from all parts of the country are available to reach Guwahati (visit the Indian Railways Official website for more details). There are direct flights from Delhi, Kolkata and Mumbai. There are direct or connecting flights from Jaipur, Chennai, Hyderabad, Bengaluru to Guwahati via Kolkata / Delhi. Air India, Jet Airways, IndiGo, SpiceJet and GoAir operate regular flights to and from Guwahati. The institute is located at a distance of 18 kilometres from the Guwahati Railway Station (GHY). The institute provides a bus service with buses plying from the institute to the city and back at regular intervals. The timetable of bus schedule may be found below. Prepaid taxis and cabs can also be availed of directly from Guwahati Railway station to reach the institute.
					 Buses are parked near to Reserve Bank of India (RBI), Panbazar which is just a 5-min walk from Guwahati Railway station. Download IIT Guwahati bus timings App:Android users click hereWindows users click here  The institute is located at a distance of 13 kilometres from the Kamakhya Railway Station (KYQ). You can catch the institute bus at Maligaon bus stop after 20 mins of their scheduled departure timing from Guwahati Railway station. Prepaid taxis and cabs can also be availed of directly from Kamakhaya Railway station to reach the institute.
					
					 The institute is located at a distance of 18 kilometres from the Guwahati Airport. Institute does not provide any bus service for Airport. Prepaid taxis and cabs can be availed of directly from Guwahati Airport to reach the institute.
					  You will need essentials like a lock, a bucket, a mug, a mattress (6’x 3’), a pillow, blanket, curtains, hangers, umbrella and a scientific calculator. A bicycle is a advised since the campus is quite large.Don’t get worked up about how to carry all this – we have a solution for that too. All these can be bought from Guwahati city to which IIT buses ply at regular intervals.Also, stalls will be set up inside the campus, for buying bicycles, mattresses, pillows, etc. Finally, it’s a free world here and you can bring literally anything - music system, computer, electric guitar and anything that you can’t live without.Both pre-paid and post-paid connections can be easily availed within the campus, however if you wish you can use your hometown’s Sim Card for initial use.Do not bring electrical items such as electric heaters, coolers, table fans, iron or electric kettle. They are not allowed as per the institute rules. On being caught, you may be fined heavily. Guwahati experiences rainy & humid climate in July & August and moderate winter climate in December & January. So, you can bring your winter clothings and quilt during your trip to home in December vacation. There would be some courses in the first year requiring basic knowledge of mechanics, electrostatics, thermodynamics and a bit of organic and physical chemistry. You’ll do some of them in the first semester, others in the second. Such courses generally start with basics of these topics and then go into further detail. For the first semester, since you have just given your exam in June, this shouldn’t really be a problem. In second semester though you may want to go through the notes (if you still have them by that time). Although, it won’t be very necessary. There are 3 major banks in the campus:  Canara Bank (IFSC: CNRB0008652, MICR Code: 781015008), State Bank of India (IFSC: SBIN0014262, MICR Code: 781002053) and ICICI (IFSC: ICIC0003325) bank. You are advised to have an account in SBI or Canara Bank for quick payments and receiving from the Institute . All of them have A.T.M.s on campus. To see the locations of the A.T.M.s you should check out the institute map.  A limited number of rooms (60 rooms) are available at IIT Guwahati Guest House that can be provided for temporary accommodation (on payment basis) for Parents/ Guardians accompanying their wards for admission at IIT Guwahati. To avail this facility, the new students (or their parents) need to fill up below mentioned online link during 10:00 hours of July 3, 2017 to 17:00 hours of July 7, 2017. For more details, click here.Those who are not getting accommodation in the Institute Guest House can explore the possibility of staying in hotels in the Guwahati City.  The hostel room is made available to the students on their arrival. Hostels are allotted randomly by the administration. Once you have been allotted a hostel, you stay there for your entire IIT life unless some special and extreme circumstances arise. IIT Guwahati has a zero tolerance policy. We do not accept ragging in any form. If you ever find yourself in a situation where you feel uncomfortable, contact anti ragging hotline number: 08011089898.For details on ragging and steps taken by Instiitue, follow: http://www.iitg.ac.in/sites/default/files/UGC-regulations-2009.pdf Residents of the opposite sex are prohibited from entering the flats/units of the hostel residents at all times. You may use the common area such as the Mess, Hostel Office or Reading room/Library for any discussion and/or group study." Library is open from 9:00 AM to 2:00 AM, although books can be issued from 9:00 AM to 5:00 PM only (working days). Library is open 24hrs. during mid semester and end semester examinations. Scholarships are offered to most students by the Institute, government agencies, alumni and corporations. This assistance is offered on the basis of Merit-cum-Means, performance, special capabilities etc. Click here for more details. Students who do very well in their first year are allowed to change their department. A Branch Change is made strictly on basis of Cumulative Performance Index (academic performance) at end of second semester. Branch changes will be made such that number of students in third semester does not exceed 110 percent of the sanctioned yearly intake for a branch. Minor Courses are efficiently designed course structures which provides you an insight and fundamental concepts of the branch you choose as your minor. You can choose minor on following topics and branches: Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics & Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Biotechnology, Chemical Engineering, Engineering Physics, Chemical Science & Technology, Mathematics, South and Southeast Asian Studies, Language and Literature, but you will have to bear an extra course throughout your semesters.You will learn some concepts of a different branch and also your Degree will read: " Bachelor of Technology in *your department* with an specialization in *your minor course*", thus possibly leading to new placement opportunity.  Yes, there is a criteria for getting a minor course, you must have CGPA of 6.5 or above in first two semesters. The number of seats in each minor discipline will be as per decision of the Senate of IIT Guwahati. However, a minor discipline will not be available if the number of applicants in that discipline is less than five. Selection to minor disciplines shall be made strictly in order of merit of the applicants. Extra load of minor courses can become a heavy burden at times, so yes, you can drop minor course in any semester before a particular last date, which is 2 weeks after mid-semester exams, but then there won’t be any mention of specialization in minor field or courses in the degree.  IIT Guwahati has LAN cables installed in every hostel room and WIFI routers in the Academic Area, Student Activity Centre (SAC) and your respective hostels. IIT Guwahati believes in providing high speed internet to all its students. Furthermore, the LAN is dysfunctional between 2 AM to 5 AM and 8 AM to 5 PM(class hours).  Institute offers delectable food services so that the brains at work can perform their best. Although home cooked food cannot be replaced by anything, the campus does have alternatives if you want to skip the mess food. The campus houses various renowned restaurant franchises like Baskin and Robbins and Subway in Food Court adjoining the New SAC building. Local food chains like Florentine Restaurant,Manikanta and Ambrosia Bakery have their outlets in the Food court as well. The institute also houses prominent restaurant and food chains in the New SAC building. The campus hosts a Cafe Coffee Day outlet, situated outside the institute library where every item is subsidized to half its original price. There are two restaurants in the Market Complex as well, namely Silverdine and Soiree. Along with these food joints, campus houses IRCTC canteen and there is a small market set up on faculty gate having various local shops for an occasional change of taste. We have an in-campus hospital at IIT Guwahati, which is open 24×7. In case of emergency the IIT Guwahati ambulance drives you to the hospital. You call them directly or approach the nearest security desk to summon them. In case it is a serious matter which cannot be handled by the staff at the IIT Guwahati hospital at that time, the students are referred to GNRC or NH Narayana Hospital  which are located very close to the campus. The IIT Guwahati ambulance will drop you there in case of an emergency free of charge. Also, during the orientation week, you will all be given a Health Record Card will guarantee you free of charge treatment and medication at the Institute Hospital. <C>