
Now most of you are concerned about how your hostel is and what is in it for you, so i have decided to update this post for you.

I would first suggest you to check your hostel allotment on net before coming here. Most of the students do not check it and then just roam from here to there. for girls, no such problem is there as there is only one girl hostel.
Everybody please check your hostel allotment here-

http://www.iitg.ernet.in/hostelacc/BTech.pdf

 Basic specifications of EVERY hostel are -

A. Single rooms to all. So its great and its freedom of self. In older hostels like Kapili, Manas, Dihing, and Siang, there is a balcony provide in each room so you can enjoy the rain. However in new hostels like Barak, Kameng , Umiam there is no balcony as its space have been included in rooms so they have bigger rooms. However in Subansiri, 2 girls per room are allotted. 

B. Each room has an attched cupboard where you can keep your belongings. There is a tube-light, a fan, a socket and switches.

C. Each room has a LAN socket where you can attach your LAN wire and can enjoy internet service.

D. Every hostel has a mess, a canteen, a fruit shop and a stationary cum departmental shop.

E. In addition to this, every hostel has a sports room where there is a TT table. You can get TT bat from reception, and are available in every hostel.You can play round the clock ant time. However i have no idea what sports facility are there in Subansiri!!

F. Every hostel has a playground where you can play football and cricket.

G. Every hostel has washing machine(s) for students to wash their clothes. The number of washing machine may vary from 2 to 4 (depending on size of the hostel). In addition to these,  there are water heaters (geysers) available in each washroom working 24X7 a week.


Boy`s hostel are-

1. Siang-  All B.Techs hostel from year 2015. Mess at siang hostel is really good. The hostel enjoys the best location- ranging from SAC to girls hostel, lecture theaters to acads building....everything is most convenient to a siang hosteler.
 Like your hostel page-https://www.facebook.com/sianghostel

2.Kapili- Near siang. It has only btechs. 1st, 2nd,3rd,and 4th yearites. nice mess, nice canteen, and  nice location. A very lively atmosphere prevails here.
 Join your hostel group-https://www.facebook.com/groups/kapili/

3.Dihing- A bit far away and located near Manas. All B.Techs.
Join your hostel group-https://www.facebook.com/groups/481621911849917/

4.Manas - A bit far away however one of the best hostels in terms pf facilities provided. Manas community hall (located just adjacent to it) is the place where shopping period is organized for freshers.  But mess food quality of Manas is the best.
Join your hostel group-https://www.facebook.com/groups/manashostel/?ref=br_rs
 
 5. Kameng, Umiam and Barak. - These are new hostels and quite big. there is no balcony but its space has been compensated in rooms so rooms are bigger.  Kameng has one of the best mess system, very good canteen, and only hostel to have a snooker table. Its the 2nd biggest hostel but is farthest from lecture halls and academic complex. Barak is situated adjacent to Kameng. Quite big, nice sports room and mess. Also has PhD scholars and M.Techs in it but no 4th yearites. Umiam is situated next to barak. Nice mess and hostel.Has all B.techs.

6. Subansiri - Its big and getting bigger. Girls are allotted rooms as 2 per room. Room design is basically similar to older boys hostel like Kapili or Manas : each room having a balcony, 1 or 2 fan, tubelight, cupboard (attached) , 2 lan connections etc. The hostel has all facilities like stationary cum departmental shop, fruit shop ,canteen, a big tv room and they should be probably having a sports room too...lol. 
The best thing about it is it`s location. Its situated adjacent to SAC(student activity center), and lawn tennis court. Professor`s bunglow are siuated in front of it. Behind it is the guest house and guest house lake. Its also very near to IITG hospital, auditorium and lecture halls.

How to reach here!!!
i wont talk much in this as you already have received a freshers guide...it contains all the information in it. On reaching the railway station, you will find your 2nd year bhaiya`s waiting to help you. Their will be a bus havin IITG BUS SERVICE banner in front of it. Just aboard it and it will take you to your dream institute..
 Similarily with airports too....

Please check your hostel allotment before reaching here....otherwise you will be having a hard time searching your hostel... 
   You need to check in when you reach the hostel. For that you would be asked to fill 2 forms plus xerox copy of your iit admit card.....so do not forget to carry it with you.
  After that you will march to your sweet room. At first it may look like the room is too small...but you will adjust to it in no time....believe me!!!
   Now there will be a LAN port in your room which will behave as your lifeline for 4yrs...lol.
You need to buy a lan wire from stationary shop of your hostel. My advice is that buy a 5m lan wire instead of 3m. You will know the advantage of it in 2-3 months...lol.
 However you are not allowed to directly use the iitg lan service for about 2 weeks...sorry.
 Also install DC++ and IPmsg in your lappy. Stay tuned for more updates on hoe to use lan service.
 Now....some serious talks-
   There will be small shops placed in Manas community hall for small items like SIM cards, and big items like bicycles ( these are very important for freshers as you need to walk for 5km every day!!!), do go there and buy necessary items.
Also on the day of registration, your registration will be conducted in lecture halls 1,2,3,4. And they will be according to your branches, so do check there which lecture hall you need to go. There will be a prof sitting on the chair calling out your respective roll no  in sequence. Its better to carry all documents beforehand- 10th and 12th marksheet, iitg allotment letter, iit admit card and report card, etc. Also then you will be asked to go to jee cell in admin buliding 3rd floor to verify your details. Do carry a fevi stick there and a pen!! 

Now this is the query most of you want to listen about........
Weather condition here have been hyped by news channels to an unexpected levels. listen....you will never see any flood here. For initial 2-3 months,yes there is more than normal humidity, for ex if you leave a parle-g out for 4 hrs it will be totally numb afterwards. 
   But the weather gets pleasant after August. Winters are not that harsh as min temp is around 7. Winter months are usually dec-jan.
   Rainfall during july and august is normal. Not much though, But yes do carry an umbrella!!
 Weather is best around feb and march. Very less humidity and pleasant winds blowing....so romantic...
 And then comes April...i should say one of the worst month in terms of weather. Very humid and heavy rainfall with violent thunderstorms around april end.
 
  What you must bring here.....


Every hostel has a canteen,a fruit shop and a stationary cum departmental shop. 

1. Canteen-

Everything, from magi to Britannia biscuits, from lays to  ice cream, is available there. So no need to bring any eatables here. Chowmein, sandwich...everything. Thats all i  can recall about canteen. Stay tuned for updates!!

2. Stationary cum departmental shop-

Here you will find everything like your bathing soap (all kinds), toothpastes, toothbrush,washing powder,sunscreen,lotions.....etc. Almost vereything.
Also you can get registers,pen and pencils, erasers.....amd all kind of stationary items. Also items like agarbattis are easily available here. Also it is the place where you can get your mobile recharged.
NOTE: All kind of mobile networks are fully functional inside the campus :D

3.Fruit shop-

From Amul tetra packs to red bull cans, from any kind of milk shakes to pineapples and watermelons, from pepsi to mazza....everything.


Things you need to bring are-

1. No need to bring mattress as there will be shops providing the same. But bring at least 2 bedsheets, one blanket and one pillow (note that pillow are also available here during shopping period ) with two pillow covers. Also bring a rough bedsheets (small size) for curtains of windows or you can buy the curtains from here also.
2. No need to bring any book.
3. If you can bring a laptop, do bring it. Its a requirement but not a necessity. There is a well established computer center where you can study if you do not have laptops. You see , basically use of laptop is to study PDF file lectures that profs teach you in class and then upload on intranet.With laptop in hand, you can study those in your room only, otherwise you have to go to computer center.
4. Do bring moth balls or naphthalene balls, hangers (also available here), air tight cans (as humidity is there), mirror , comb,torch with extra batteries,wrist watch. Also bring at least 2 strong locks as they are not available here.

5. You can also bring a water heating kettle. Bajaj or Sunflame have good products. these are helpful in winters , in case you need warm water to drink or if you are fond of morning tea (as breakfast starts around 0730 )

