<H1> Welcome to Indian Institute of Technology Guwahati <H1><H2> About IIT Guwahati Amazing Drone video of IIT Guwahati Student Organisation SAATHI About Us Counsellor's Timings Student Mentorship Team Anonymous Emotional Support System <H2><H3> Welfare Board Hostel Affairs Board Sports Board Cultural Board Technical Board Students' Academic Board Student Alumni Interaction Linkage <H3><C> The campus of IIT Guwahati is on the northern banks of Brahmaputra and abuts the North Guwahati town of Amingaon. The campus is on a 700 acres (2.8 km sq.) plot of land around 20 km from the heart of the city. It has the Brahmaputra on one side and hills and vast open spaces on others.IIT Guwahati is a prestigious institute of higher learning producing meritorious students with excellent career growth and universal recognition. The students go to get the best of opportunities in the form of highly advanced courses, eminent faculty members, well-equipped laboratories, library, hostels and immense facilities to excel in research and development.The faculty and students are thriving every year to add to the list of bejeweled achievements of the institute in the form of research publications, projects, fellowships and industrial exposure.
                     IITG fraternity welcome you to one of the most beautiful and green campus with a  Campus Tour Video prepared  by Anchorenza & RadioG club, IITG  apolitical student body that promotes the objectves of fostering extra-curricular and co-curricular activities, welfare of students and their stay in the campus. It broadly address the overall well-being of the students of the institute. It acts as the central coordinating authority for all hostels. It organizes and promotes all extra-curricular activities in the field of Sports. It organizes and promotes all extra-curricular cultural activities in the campus. It organizes and promotes all extracurricular technical and scientific activities. It addresses all the academic issues of the student community to the admin. SAIL keeps you in touch with the IITG community even after you pass out. Counselling Service by IIT Guwahati <C>